this is an innovation that I've come up
with we brand it flexi biogas solutions
or flexi barrier systems I'm an easy way
to understand how and why they work is
to just imagine that the system the
envelope which you can see inside the
digester is the synthetic stomach or a
cow the cow has got particular bacteria
inside expected stomach that when it
chews the grass the bacteria will then
break that food down into minerals of
which the intestine will absorb in the
process of doing this that the bacteria
release very large volumes of methane
gas which is combustible which is what
we desire which is what the whole biogas
story is all about this system takes
about a day to install 12 hours a normal
working day it will kick into gear and
start producing gas immediately you will
get usable volumes of gas within about
four or five days within a week you're
going to be running at
optimum capacity of the device and the
system is very efficient in that you
actually have to tone down
you have to stop loading it with with
with with with with slurry because it
will produce more gas than you then you
would normally refine the envelopes are
made of PVC tarpaulin industrial grade
so they are very very robust the shelf
life would be exposed to the elements
around ten years the greenhouse fabric
is UV filter used in commercial
greenhouse all over the world it has a
shelf life of between 15 and 20 years
they basically are like big tank systems
and they have an inlet and outlet but in
order for them to to work efficiently
and actually not to block is they must
have forms of agitation so when you
agitate your slurry which is the
substrate inside the digester what
you're asking for is new input to be
mixed with what's leaving the chamber
the exhausting slurry which means that
you are constantly losing undigested
food for the bacteria with all of these
considerations we took into account we
have now what we call a cross flow
system where you feed it from one end
and it will flow across the tube and out
the other side so as its flowing across
the tube it is digesting and it will
fully breakdown so what comes out is
actually just dissolved it's just
dissolved minerals there's no more
fermentation we want the food value has
been exhausted and it actually is what
the interest time would have done by
absorbing those minerals the roots of a
plant do exactly the same thing and in
terms of the capacity because the
retention period of the slurry is so
short in the system because of the
greenhouse raises the temperature you're
going to get all of your energy out of
the slurry in such a short window of
time that you get very very large
volumes the system is also expandable in
that because the cost is so low
when you do reach your when you realize
that you've got to the limit of your the
capacity of your system it's because
it's not it's not as it's a portable
system you can pass it on and then
invest in in the larger system
the systems will convert 20 kilos of
animal dung cow dung into about between
700 and 1,000 litres of cooking gas
which is enough gas for an average
family of four to six members if you
have more most cows will give you 40
kilos 30 to 40 kilos are done so you
will always have more gas than you
require if you load all of the Koda
especially in the zero grazing unit type
farming methods we use here with that
excess gas you can now run generators
you can run a shaft cutters even on
water pumps which is why we call it a
total energy solution so you know with
as little as one cow you you're on the
map you can be online with your you know
computer charging once you got power
you've got everything so you've got your
biogas most all conventional LPG
appliances it can be converted to run on
biogas so we're not inventing the wheel
as fast as far as the applications are
concerned we just modifying them to run
all the various
you